#summary Selected publications related to geolocation
#labels Featured

= Publications =

Galuardi, B., Nielsen, A., Lutcavage, M. Optimizing Smoothed Sea Surface Temperature Through Crossvalidation. 2008, Marine Ecology Progress Series, 365, 35-44. [http://code.google.com/p/geolocation/source/browse/wiki/pdf/Galuardi2008.pdf Cross-validation]

Lam, Chi H., Anders Nielsen, and John R. Sibert, 2008. Improving light and temperature based geolocation by unscented Kalman filtering. Fisheries Research, 91: 15-25. [http://www.soest.hawaii.edu/PFRP/reprints/lam_nielsen_sibert.pdf Ukfsst] 

Lam, Chi H., Anders Nielsen, and John R. Sibert, 2010. Incorporating sea-surface temperature to the light-based geolocation model !TrackIt. Marine Ecology Progress Series 419:71-84. [http://www.int-res.com/abstracts/meps/v419/p71-84/ Trackit with SST]

Nielsen, A., Bigelow, K. A., Musyl, M. K., and Sibert, J. R. 2006. Improving light-based geolocation by including sea surface temperature. Fisheries Oceanography, 15(4), 314-325. [http://www.soest.hawaii.edu/PFRP/reprints/nielsen_geolocation.pdf Kfsst]

Nielsen, Anders, and John R. Sibert, 2007. State-space model for light-based tracking of marine animals. Canadian Journal of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences 64: 1055-1068. [http://www.soest.hawaii.edu/PFRP/reprints/Nielsen_Sibert_2007.pdf Trackit]

Nielsen, Anders, John R. Sibert, Suzanne Kohin, and Michael K. Musyl, 2009. State space model for light based tracking of marine animals: Validation on swimming and diving creatures. In Nielsen, J.L., H. Arrizabalaga, N. Fragoso, A. Hobday, M. Lutcavage, and J.Sibert (Eds.), Tagging and Tracking Marine Animals with Electronic Devices. 9:295-309. Kluwer Academic Publishers, The Netherlands. [http://code.google.com/p/geolocation/source/browse/wiki/pdf/Nielsen2008.pdf Validation]

Pedersen, Martin. W., T. A. Patterson, U. H. Thygesen and H. Madsen, 2011. Estimating animal behavior and residency from movement data. Oikos 120: 1281–1290. [https://vmmawp.imm.dtu.dk/trackproject/doc/sphmm.pdf Spatial HMM]

Sibert, J.R., Musyl, M.K., Brill, R.W., 2003. Horizontal movements of bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus) near Hawaii determined by Kalman filter analysis of archival tagging data. Fisheries Oceanography, 12(3):141-151. [http://www.soest.hawaii.edu/PFRP/reprints/sibert_horizontal.pdf Kftrack]

Sibert, John R., Molly E. Lutcavage, Anders Nielsen, Richard W. Brill, and Steven G. Wilson, 2006. Interannual variation in large-scale movement of Atlantic bluefin tuna (Thunnus thynnus) determined from pop-up satellite archival tags. Canadian Journal of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences 63: 2154-2166. [http://www.soest.hawaii.edu/PFRP/reprints/Sibert_Lutcavage_etal_2006.pdf Extending Kftrack]. Also, [http://www.soest.hawaii.edu/PFRP/reprints/Sibert_Lutcavage_etal_2006_supplement.pdf Supplementary material]