#summary Take geolocation models for a spin with track-project.org
#labels Featured

= http://track-project.org =
=== Created by Martin W. Pedersen and Anders Nielsen  ===

Track-project is an online application (or in modern terms 'cloud service'), which analyses movement data using a range of statistical methods. The methods available here were developed by researchers currently employed at the Danish National Institute of Aquatic Resources in collaboration with scientific partners. The methods (KFtrack, KFsst, TrackIt, Spatial HMM) are documented in [ArticleRefs scientific papers]. 

The use of track-project is free of charge. We have created it to increase the usability of advanced statistical methods for movement analysis, however this site is primarily meant for demonstration of the methods. Analysis of larger batches of data should be done locally.

== Your Data ==

It is possible to upload and analyse your own data with track-project, but fear not! We will never use your data ourselves or disclose it to any third party.

== Disclaimer ==

Since track-project is an ongoing research project bugs and unforseen limitations are highly probable. Therefore, the use of output from this calculator is solely the resposibility of the user. The authors of this calculator cannot be held resposible for any miscalculations or misinterpretations of the results.

Questions can be emailed to Martin W. Pedersen `map@aqua.dtu.dk`

<wiki:gadget url="http://geolocation.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/html/trackproject.xml" width="800" height="1200" border="0" />
